Hi, everyone.
My name is Alex Rofman.
I hope you're all having a good day.
I manage a team of people back in
Cupertino whose responsibility it is to
help you be successful on the App Store.
So I'll kick off our lunchtime
session with some tips and
tricks to help you do so.
Then I'll pass it off to my colleague,
Steve McGuigan, who will talk to you
about App Store marketing.
And then our colleague, Shannon Bruce,
will give you some tips and
tricks on iTunes Connect.
So let's get started
with a business update.
2013 has been a fantastic
year for the App Store.
In May, the 50 billionth app was
downloaded from the store.
And then in October, at our iPad event,
we announced that the 60
billionth app had been downloaded,
nearly half of which happened
in the prior 12 months.
Tremendous momentum behind the business.
2013 has been a fantastic
year for the App Store.
In May, the 50 billionth app was
downloaded from the store.
And then in October, at our iPad event,
we announced that the 60
billionth app had been downloaded,
nearly half of which happened
in the prior 12 months.
Tremendous momentum behind the business.
This is a statistic that we're perhaps
most proud of for a number of reasons.
First, none of the competitive
services have announced a single
figure about how much you,
developers, are making distributing your
apps on their platforms.
And we understand that for you
to continue to invest in iOS,
there needs to be a
return on your investment.
So we couldn't be prouder that this
number keeps going up and to the right.
And then in July,
the App Store celebrated
its fifth birthday.
I joined the team in July of 2009,
59 billion downloads ago and billions
and billions and billions of dollars ago.
It's really incredible to think
that the business has only
been around for five years.
We hope you're as excited as we
are about what the next five years
of the App Store might bring.
There are 575 million accounts
associated with the App Store,
most of which have credit
cards tied to them,
which gives you as developer an
unprecedented opportunity to acquire
customers from all over the world.
The App Store catalog now stands
at more than one million apps with
thousands more added on a weekly basis.
And when you look at just games,
there are 180,000 games
available in the store,
100,000 of which are made for the
beautiful larger palette of the iPad.
Taking a look at the App Store catalog
by content type for games,
we see that 45% of games available
in the store are iPhone only,
13% are iPad only,
and 41% are what we call universal apps,
where one download works on
all of a customer's devices.
The catalog is tremendously active with
more than 90% of all apps available
downloaded on a monthly basis.
And there's tremendous
velocity in this business.
More than 800 apps are
downloaded every second.
To give you a sense of scale,
by the end of our lunchtime session,
nearly 4.5 million apps will have
been downloaded by App Store customers
from around the world.
So that's the business update.
Next,
I want to give you a quick overview of
the App Store to help you understand how
the business is structured and managed.
The App Store is a global
business available in 155
countries around the world.
But this is not just about
a distribution footprint.
There's a real revenue opportunity
for developers to distribute
their apps all over the world.
61% of Apple's revenue comes
from outside the United States.
And this is a vastly different
percentage than from when
before the App Store launched.
All across the world we have hand-curated
stores programmed in the local language
where local currency is accepted.
Here's our North and
South American stores.
Here's our European stores.
[ Transcript missing ]
As I said, the way we do that is by
curating the App Store.
Here's a couple screenshots
from the App Store.
You see the featured page on the left,
the games category page,
which is one of 24 category
pages programmed and curated in
major markets around the world.
And then on the right,
you see the Design for iOS 7 collection,
which is one of dozens and dozens
of thematic and seasonal collections
that have every app that someone
might need for a particular topic.
On the iPad, same curation,
just more real estate
for more great apps.
On a weekly basis,
our editors around the world are choosing
the best apps and the best games and
denoting them as editor's choice.
Here's a few recent selections.
And also on a weekly basis,
we curate what we call the
Free App of the Week program,
where a well-localized paid game or
app that's universal is made available
for free for our customers to download.
Apple waives its commissions
as part of this program.
The developer waives its
royalties as part of this program.
And customers around the world
have really enjoyed getting a great
piece of paid content for free.
Here's three more pages
from the App Store.
Charts page, recently launched popular
Near Me page in the center,
and a search results page on the right.
These pages are not
curated on the App Store.
The business is five years old.
We work with thousands and
thousands of developers.
Not a week goes by when
we don't get the question,
how do I improve the placement
of my app in search results?
And while keywords have some impact
in where your app shows up when
a user searches for something,
the most important thing that you as
a developer can do is build something
great that our customers love and the
algorithms will take care of the rest.
So to give you a quick overview of
the App Store editorial process,
first and foremost,
our selections are based on
quality and quality alone.
There is no paid placement
in the App Store.
We've never accepted any money
for placement in the store
and we have no plans to do so.
The process of choosing apps to feature
is separate from the app review process.
Apps are approved or rejected
based on their adherence to our
App Store review guidelines.
Just because your app is approved,
however,
does not mean that it will be featured.
We consider apps from all 24 categories
with a particular focus on new apps
or apps with significant updates.
And lastly,
while newly approved apps are added
to the store on a continual basis,
new featured content is added
to the store on a weekly basis,
typically Thursdays.
So that's the App Store overview.
Next, let's dig into some best practices.
So first, your App Store presence.
This is your app name, your app icon,
your screenshots, your description,
and your keywords.
In many cases,
the first introduction of your
brand to App Store customers.
If your head's down in development,
it's very easy to overlook these things,
but with a little bit
of time and attention,
they're not very difficult to do well.
So let's take a look at
Clash of Clans as an example.
The name, short, unique, memorable,
with no keywords or
descriptives attached to it.
The icon,
incredibly and beautifully designed,
stands out on a user's home screen
and is instantly recognizable.
Next,
let's take a look at their screenshots.
Your screenshots should tell a story.
You should avoid distracting
overlays or graphics.
And you can see here,
while the Clash of Clans game has
a lot going on in the game screens,
they put these nice banners at the
top that explain to the user what
each screenshot is meant to represent.
Wage epic battles.
Coordinate attacks with your clan.
Fight against goblins or other players.
Dominate the realm.
So real concise and clear
messaging to the customer about
what their experience might be if
they start using Clash of Clans.
Next, let's take a look at
their app description.
Lead your clan to victory.
Clash of Clans is an epic
combat strategy game.
Build your village, train your troops,
and battle with thousands
of other players online.
So this is taken from the product page in
the iPhone app store for Clash of Clans.
It's optimized for the device.
The first three or four
lines are most important.
You shouldn't require the user to tap on
the more button to learn about your game.
This game has received many,
many accolades.
The game has been named for its success
by the Chinese and American players.
It's a game that's been recognized by
the world for its high performance,
and it's a game that's been recognized
by the world for its high performance.
It's a game that's been recognized by
the world for its high performance.
It's a game that's and also
be purchased for real money.
If you don't want to use this feature,
please disable in-app purchases
in your device's settings.
This is not necessary,
but this is just a real great
message to send to customers who
might not be familiar with the
free to play model and might not be
familiar with how to turn off in-app
purchasing in their device's settings.
Next, let's take a look at keywords.
So I can't share with you what
Clash of Clans keywords are
because they're confidential,
but let's look at some sample
keywords for a word game.
So word, word games, spell, spelling,
letter, letters, and scrabble.
These are not very good keywords for
the App Store for a number of reasons.
So first,
you see the word word is duplicated.
You also don't need to include
the category name as a keyword.
Our system handles that.
You also don't need to include plural.
So you see letter and letters here.
Include the singular,
our system will handle the plural.
And then in terms of using
third-party names like scrabble,
it's only okay to use the name
of a third-party in your keyword
if your app or game uses an
API provided by that third-party.
So here's a much better,
much stronger set of
keywords for a word game.
Word, letter, spell, board, dictionary,
friend, family, and alphabet.
So again, that's your App Store presence.
Your name, your icon, your screenshots,
your description, and your keywords.
Not very challenging to do well with
just a little time and attention.
So next I want to talk
about business models.
And the first business model advice we
have for you is to build a universal app.
Yes, this is a product decision,
but it's also a business decision
as well for a number of reasons.
First,
our customers love the convenience of
being able to download a single app
that works on all of their devices
as shown in this animation here.
And looking back at the App Store games
catalog by content type,
while we see growth in all key metrics,
catalog size, sales,
and downloads for iPhone apps, iPad apps,
and universal apps,
by far we see the highest growth for
universal apps because our customers
are responding to that convenience.
The data also shows that customers are
not inclined to download or purchase
two separate versions of the same title.
So next, how do you choose the right
business model for your product?
So there's no single piece of
advice that I can stand up here
and give you that applies to every
product you guys are building
or already have in the App Store.
But my goal is to give you
a few key takeaways to help
you make a better decision.
So here are three of the
possible business models
available to you in the store.
On the left, you see a free only product.
Typically,
these are ad supported or meant to
support broader brand strategies.
And often, very often,
we see developers with ad supported games
put a remove ads in app SKU into their
product and that's their business model.
Well, as you'll see a little bit
later in my freemium discussion,
that doesn't make your app freemium.
There's no chance for ongoing
monetization if that's
the only way to do it.
In the center, paid apps.
There's a lot of chatter on the
blogs and in the media that the
market for paid apps and paid
games on the App Store is dead.
And as someone who looks at this data
every day for the last four plus years,
I can tell you that's flat out not true.
Paid titles still represent a significant
portion of the App Store business.
There's no shortage of customers
willing to pay and seeking
out that premium experience.
And then on the right,
you see a model we call Paymium,
where the paymium is a model that allows
you to pay for the app you're using.
There's no shortage of customers
willing to pay for the app you're using.
And then on the left,
you see a model we call Paymium,
where the paymium is a model that allows
you to pay for the app you're using.
Freemium is a business model where a
product or service is provided for free,
but money is charged
for advanced features,
functionality, or virtual goods.
So to my point about a remove
ads in app SKU in a game,
that doesn't really fit
with this definition.
And freemium is a model that
many developers are seeing
success with in the store.
Puzzle games, racing games,
time management games.
But looking at the games catalog
broken down by business model,
you can see more than 75% of games
available in the App Store have a
business model that is not freemium.
It is not the right
model for every product.
And while I'm sure you notice the success
of freemium games on the top grossing
charts on the App Store in particular,
what you don't notice is that the
app store is not a business model.
What you don't see are all the well done,
highly rated games that chose
the wrong business model and
never made it onto the charts.
So again,
my goal here is to help you make a
good decision if you're considering
freemium as your business model.
To help you do so,
we've developed a framework that involves
three questions that you should consider.
The first, what are your target
market's expectations?
So what I mean here is from
a business model perspective,
don't try to fit a square
peg into a round hole.
To explain what I mean,
let me walk you through a few examples.
So let's take Scrabble.
Scrabble is a brand that has existed
in the physical world for many,
many decades.
The target market expectations
for a brand like Scrabble are
that it's a premium product.
You pay a single price and you can
play Scrabble as many times as you
want with as many people as you want.
In contrast, if you look at racing games
or time management games,
there are expectations among
gamers of those types of games
that through skill and experience,
they can acquire enhancements
or expand their game.
So make sure your business
model fits with what your
target market might expect.
As we walk through this discussion,
let's take a look at the
funnel for downloads.
So at the top, you see downloads.
This is your target market.
Being free will not make everyone
in the world download your app,
but it may expand your reach
within your target market.
The next question in the
framework is can you segment the
experience between free and paid?
If as a developer running a
business you decide that you're not
interested in acquiring free users,
that's completely fine.
Just don't choose freemium as your model.
The most successful freemium products
and apps and games in the store are
providing a tremendous amount of
value to both free and paid users.
The reason why is that the
path to monetization in
freemium is through engagement.
And if you throw up a paywall as
soon as a user launches your game,
you're not giving them a chance to get
engaged and you're not giving yourselves
a chance to monetize that customer.
So the next piece of
the funnel is retention.
This is the percent of your target market
that is getting some kind of value out
of your product and continues to use it.
So before I move on to the
final question in the framework,
let's take a look at the typical
game loop for a freemium game.
At the top, you see action.
This is winning a battle
or winning a race.
Next, you see reward.
Typically in freemium products,
this is currency.
And then you see expansion,
which is you use that currency
to buy a new car or expand,
buy new tires or buy new
weapons for your battle.
So what's important,
and the reason I'm sharing this with you
today is to be successful in freemium,
it is very important to
be successful in freemium.
It is very important that you allow
progression through this game loop
without requiring users to pay.
That might be a hard thing for people
to swallow if you're running a business,
but again, then freemium might not be
the right model for you.
So the last piece of the framework is do
you have a plan to create lasting value?
This is twofold.
This is your plan as a developer
to have a rich plan for updates,
content and features updates over time.
And this also relates to the
inherent value of the product itself.
If you're building something that only
has 30 minutes or one hour of gameplay,
there's probably not any
lasting value in that for users.
So freemium is probably not
the right model for you.
Which brings us to the
last piece of the funnel,
which is conversion.
The percent of those who have retained,
who've decided to pay.
So do the math.
It's incredibly important to
determining whether freemium
is the right model for you.
If you have a niche game,
you might see a higher retention and a
higher conversion and a higher average
spread so the math can work out for you.
Or in contrast,
if you're building something
with broad market appeal,
you might see millions
and millions of downloads,
but maybe a lower retention,
lower conversion, lower average spread,
but the math can still work out
because the numbers are so big.
So start with your target market and
do the math from that point forward.
So you've gone through the framework,
you've done the math,
and you've decided that
freemium is right for you.
So what are the next steps?
So again, first,
identify and focus on your target market.
Have a business model that's
consistent with what your
target market might expect.
Next, prioritize engagement
before monetization.
You're not doing yourself any
service if you throw up a paywall as
soon as a user launches your game.
Give them a chance to get engaged.
Give them a chance to find
some value out of your product.
Incorporate the business model into the
early stages of your product design.
If you've built something great
and beautiful without any regard
for the business model and at the
11th hour right before you launch,
you put an in-app store in there,
it's not going to feel native or
natural to customers and chances are,
again, they're not going to get engaged.
So consider the business
model from the very,
very beginning of your product design.
Track your metrics.
And the takeaway here is don't be afraid
to tune your economy if freemium is right
for you or freemium is not right for you.
Don't be afraid to switch to
a different business model.
Treat your game as a service.
The most successful freemium games
in the store really are treated
as services by their developers
with constant live updates and
really endless amounts of value,
entertainment value that gamers
can get from their products.
And then lastly,
protect and respect our mutual customers.
When I say protect our customers,
if you're building a game
targeted towards kids,
put yourself in the parents' shoes.
Consider A,
whether freemium's right to begin with,
but if it is,
consider the number of in-app SKUs you
might make available and consider
whether you need that $99 in-app
SKU in your kids-focused product.
And then when I talk about
respecting customers,
this ties back to what I've been saying.
Give them a chance to get engaged.
Don't put a paywall in front of them
as soon as they launch your product.
So that's my discussion on freemium.
Next, we'll talk about pricing.
So the App Store runs
under the agency model,
which means that you as a developer have
sole control over the price of your app.
Our guidance here is twofold.
Price thoughtfully and take
a look at the competition.
If you're building a casual game that's
meant to compete with Angry Birds and
you want to charge $5 or $10 for it,
chances are you're probably not
going to do well because the market
for that type of game is $0.99.
The other key takeaway here is
that there's a misconception out
there in the market that the only
two price points that work in
the App Store are free and $0.99.
And again, as someone who looks
at this data every day,
I can tell you that that's
just flat out not true.
We see many,
many developers of apps and games
seeing success at higher price points.
Next, consider price promotions, sales.
Don't do them all the time.
If you do, customers will constantly be
waiting for that next deal and
they'll never buy your product.
But well-timed price promotions
are a great way to grow your
business on the App Store.
So a couple last steps before you launch.
First, communicate with Apple.
As I said before,
there's thousands and thousands
of new apps added to the
App Store on a weekly basis.
If you've built something
you're proud of,
that you think we should
tell our customers about,
it always helps to let us know.
So that first email address,
appstorepromotionatapple.com,
is something monitored by my team.
Tell us who you are, what you've built,
and why you think our customers
would enjoy your product,
and we'll take a look.
The second email address,
appoftheweekatapple.com,
if you have a well-localized paid
product that you'd like to nominate
for our App of the Week program,
please send us your information
at appoftheweekatapple.com.
We'll take a look as well.
Next, plan for app review to take time.
Gone are the days of app
review taking weeks and weeks.
Our published guidance these days is
that roughly 95% of apps are reviewed
within five business days or less.
That being said,
it's better to be safe than sorry.
So plan for at least
two weeks in app review,
just in case last minute bug
pops up or you have issues with
launching your marketing campaign,
things of that nature.
And then the last point here,
my colleague Steve will talk
about in further detail.
Don't rely on your chances
of being featured by the
App Store as your marketing plan.
There are many,
many things you can do that
are within your control.
And as I said, Steve will talk about that
more in just a few minutes.
So you've launched your product.
Now what?
Well, first and foremost,
monitor your ratings and reviews.
App Store customers are incredibly vocal.
They'll tell you what you're doing well.
They'll tell you what you're not doing.
So you've launched your product.
Now what?
Well, first and foremost,
monitor your ratings and reviews.
App Store customers are incredibly vocal.
They'll tell you what you're doing well.
They'll tell you what
you're not doing well.
You may discover some bugs and you may
get some great ideas for future updates.
Speaking of updates,
launching it and leaving it is not a
strategy for success in the App Store.
The market is too competitive.
Here's some real data
from Clash of Clans.
Each orange star represents a significant
update they've made to the product.
I had to remove the scale
for confidentiality purposes,
but I'm sure you all are aware that
this game is pretty successful.
What's interesting to note are
not just the spikes that they
saw when they updated their game,
but in between the updates,
there's some flatness
and even in some cases,
some decline.
So well-timed updates are a great
way to build momentum in the store.
Test your apps thoroughly so you
can avoid constant bug fix updates,
but the right timing for feature-rich
or content-rich updates is
roughly every four to six weeks.
Next, use push notifications and sharing.
On the left,
you see push notification screen.
Avoid using notifications in a way
that might be perceived as spam
or marketing by our customers,
but well-timed,
well-written push notifications
are a great way to bring
people back to your product.
And then on the right,
if people love using your game and
they're proud of their accomplishments,
use our share sheet functionality
and make it easy for them
to tell others about it.
Next, monitor your sales and trends.
This might seem obvious,
but you'd be surprised at how
many people don't do this.
There's a wealth of data available
to you in iTunes Connect.
There's a vibrant ecosystem of third
parties whose existence is to help
you optimize your business on iOS.
You never know what you might discover,
especially a market where you didn't
think your app was doing well in,
but it is, and there's a great idea for
a future update to add the
localization for that market.
So that's my discussion
on best practices.
Next, we'll talk a little
bit about localization.
So as I said before,
the App Store is a global business
in 155 countries around the world.
So as a developer,
you need to think globally.
There really is an unprecedented
opportunity for you to acquire
customers from all corners of the globe.
But one size doesn't fit all.
There's lots of cultural and linguistic
differences from country to country.
So to be successful,
you need to not only think globally,
but you need to be local.
And what I mean by that is to localize.
And I want to walk you through the
example of Where's My Water To in
France to help you understand.
So this is the icon.
So their name in French,
Ma Oue est Swampie Deux.
So it would have been very easy for
them to use the English name in France,
but they decided not to do that.
They localized the name in
a way that's... that speaks
directly to French customers.
Next, their app description.
As you probably can tell,
my French is a little bit rusty,
so I'm not going to read this to you.
But here's the description for
Where's My Water To in French,
optimized for device,
written in a way that speaks
directly to French customers.
Their screenshots.
Here's the screenshots from their U.S.
App Store.
Would have been very easy
for them to do this because
they're mostly visual in nature.
But they didn't do it.
They changed the text to French to
speak directly to that market.
So again, localize your app name,
your app description, your screenshots,
and all of the contents of your app.
There's also something
called culturalization.
And to show you what I mean here,
I have a short video
that I want to show you.
So this is a trailer for
Need for Speed Online in China.
The tracks that the cars are
racing through are from China.
The road signage, the billboards,
they're in Chinese.
The audio, they hired Beijing police to
record the audio for this game.
Chinese gamers love competing
against their friends,
so they built a tournament
mode and leaderboards so they
could track their progress.
And while culturalization doesn't
necessarily apply to every game,
where there's a fit,
it will absolutely make a difference.
So that's culturalization.
So languages.
Here's the list of recommended
languages for localization if you have
something that's globally relevant.
English, French, Italian, German,
and Spanish.
The Asian languages,
traditional and simplified Chinese,
Japanese, and Korean.
Brazilian, Portuguese, Russian, Turkish,
and Arabic.
This is not prioritized,
but this is the group of languages
that we recommend you start with if
you have a globally relevant product.
So let's look at some more data
to show you that localization
actually does have an impact.
Again, we thank Supercell for letting
us share this data with you.
This is Clash of Clans and
their Chinese localization.
And I had to remove the scale.
They were doing pretty well.
That scale on the left is
not an insignificant number.
But there was no growth.
And at the orange star,
they localized into Chinese.
And look what happened.
3% to 400% sales growth.
In Japan, same thing for Clash of Clans.
A little bit of growth,
not doing quite as well
as they were in China,
but massive growth when they tune
their product for the Japanese market.
And let's take a look at the charts.
Here's a recent screenshot
of the charts from China,
Japan, and France.
With all but two exceptions here,
Angry Birds and Clash of Clans
that have gone the branding
route with their app name,
not their full apps, just the app name,
every app you see at the top
of the charts here is localized
for these individual markets.
And on top of that,
our local editors in these markets
have a very strong preference
for promoting localized apps.
So again, think globally, but be local.
And Apple provides a number of
resources to help you to do so.
There's the URL at the top.
You'll find some tips and tricks
for localization on this page,
as well as a list of third-party
localization vendors if you don't
have the linguistic expertise in-house
to localize into dozens of languages.
So that's my talk on localization.
And last but not least, getting featured.
So first and foremost,
focus on what you can control,
and that's building something great
and unique that our customers love.
Next, have a strong App Store presence.
These things matter.
We put our stamp of approval on
apps and games that we feature,
and you should well represent who you
are and what you've built and make a
strong introduction to our customers.
Choose the right business
model and price thoughtfully.
Offer customers a universal binary.
Localize in relevant markets.
And lastly,
communicate with the App Store team.
So that's my talk for today.
Thank you very much.
And now I'll turn it
over to my colleague,
Steve McGuigan,
to talk about App Store marketing.
Good afternoon.
My name is Steve McGuigan and I look
after marketing for the App Store.
You know, we spend a lot of time thinking
about apps at Apple and
not just on the App Store,
but Apple as a whole.
And we love marketing apps
through our many channels.
Many of the apps come from some
of the audience members here.
The channels we market
through are television,
print.
You'll see us marketing apps on
billboards throughout cities.
We market apps through our over 400
retail locations around the globe and
our thousands of channel partners.
We spend a lot of time and energy
marketing apps on apple.com,
as well as to the hundreds of
millions of emails that we send out
to our customers on a monthly basis.
And then finally,
we speak to nearly 11 million
fans and followers on social
media every single day.
But as Alex said earlier,
you control much of your
success on the App Store.
You are not dependent
upon getting featured.
Your success, of course,
starts with a great app,
but that success will be propelled
by having a great marketing plan.
And that's what I'm here
to talk to you about today.
I'm going to begin by talking about
three programs that we've created
to help you not only monetize,
but also help you promote your apps.
I'll talk about some of the resources
we've made available to you to
make your marketing look great.
And then I'll conclude by talking
about the components that make up
a comprehensive marketing campaign.
So let's begin with the
programs and resources.
I've been hearing for quite some time
that developers have been looking for
a way for them to market their apps
to customers for free without making
their app free on the App Store.
So I'm proud to announce a
new program that we're calling
the App Store Code Program.
This program will provide you,
the developer,
the ability to market free offers to your
customers by using unique 12-digit codes.
Currently,
the program is focused on offering
your paid apps downloaded for free.
Now, these are different than those
100 promo codes that you can
request out of iTunes Connect.
Those should be used
for your PR purposes,
which I'll talk about later.
These codes will come
in a much higher volume,
and they should be used for
large marketing campaigns.
Now it's a completely free program.
You as the developer would waive
your 70% royalties and we as
Apple would waive our 30% commission.
And when you receive these codes,
you can distribute them
digitally or physically.
And I'll provide some examples
for you in a few slides.
So let's first talk about
the benefits of this program.
First,
you will be able to create an impactful
and a high-value marketing promotion.
It will not only aid in user acquisition,
but it also can be used in
an engagement tool with some
of your existing customers.
The beauty of this is
that it's built into iOS.
So the redemption flow is simple,
frictionless, and will produce a
consistent user experience.
So let me get into a couple of
examples for you so you can understand
how these codes can work for you.
And the first is a digital
distribution example from our
friends at Big Fish Games.
They have a paid app called Fairway
Solitaire and they wanted to do a
marketing campaign targeted at golf
enthusiasts and game enthusiasts.
So they created this banner
or this ad that they presented
through various mobile sites
addressing that targeted audience.
The customer would see the ad
and they would tap on get it free
where they'd be presented with
this terms and conditions page.
But Big Fish had a great idea.
They said, why don't we leverage this
opportunity to share this
promotion through social networks?
So they give the customer
the ability to go share this
through Facebook and Twitter.
But back to the redemption flow.
The customer would tap on
the "Get it free" button,
at which point the App Store would
launch automatically,
and the customer would just
simply type in their password.
That 12-digit code is automatically
populated into the redeem field.
So all the customer needs to
do at this point is tap redeem
and the app begins to download.
A very simple experience
for the customer.
But you also have an opportunity to
distribute these codes and activate
your customers at a physical location.
And Halfbrick came to us,
the makers of Fruit Ninja,
and they had a great idea.
They wanted to celebrate the anniversary
of Fruit Ninja and they thought they
would produce a high quality event in
public venues throughout Australia.
So the idea they came to us
with was they'll create a kiosk,
it would have eight iPads around it,
a few flat screens,
and customers could come
up and play Fruit Ninja.
They would put signage out about town
driving people to this event and they
would keep track of the high scores
that day as they were trying to find
Australia's next Fruit Ninja master.
Well, they took it a step further and
created four of these kiosks and placed
these in shopping malls and parks
around Melbourne and Sydney recently.
And while customers were
engaging with Fruit Ninja,
they would provide them a physical
card and each card had its own
unique 12-digit code on it.
On the back, it explained how to redeem.
It said, launch the app store,
plug in your password,
type in that 12-digit code that
you saw on the front of the card,
and tap redeem.
And your app then downloads for free.
[ Transcript missing ]
We want to make sure that it's a great
experience for our mutual customers,
so the offer needs to be open.
In other words,
you can't require somebody to
pay for these codes that you're
eventually giving away for free,
or you can't require them to give you
a mailing address or an email address.
We want it to be a delightful
experience for everybody.
We'd ask that you track
your distribution.
We'd like to know how many codes
you're putting through which channels.
And then, of course, you would need our
approval to move forward.
So how do you do that?
Well, it's quite simple.
Send us an email at
appstorecodes@apple.com.
We will send you back a template.
We'll ask you to fill out that
will describe the campaign
that you're hoping to run,
which countries you want to run it in,
what kind of distribution you want to do.
And once we approve that,
we'll send you an
agreement that you sign.
You send us the agreement back,
and then we'll deliver you the codes.
Now, one of the great benefits of this is
that you can track your redemptions in
the Sales and Trends Report that you
already look at through iTunes Connect.
So you can see the performance
of your campaign and the
results on a daily basis.
So that's our new App Store Code Program.
The second program I want
to discuss with you is iAd.
As you likely know,
iAd is Apple's digital
advertising platform.
And we know that you spend an enormous
amount of time producing great games.
And we know you don't want
to degrade that experience by
serving up poor quality ads.
And that's where iAd comes in.
iAd serves compelling, rich media ads.
And it's now available in 14 countries.
Just this week we launched in Taiwan,
Hong Kong, and Ireland to round it out.
Now there's two aspects to iAd.
There's the monetization
and there's the promotion.
So let's begin by talking about
the monetization side of iAd
and how you can leverage iAd to
generate revenue within your game.
Well,
by serving up iAds within your game,
you will receive a 70% revenue
share for every iAd that you serve.
And the network is both
flexible and noncompetitive.
What I mean is that while
you're serving iAds,
you are still able to still go out
there and sell your own ads if you want.
You also have the ability to
block your competitors from
showing up within your game.
So if you want to prevent certain apps
or certain brands from showing up,
you can do that.
As I said earlier,
iAd serves compelling rich media ads and
you can track your results in real time.
You can see the revenue, the taps,
the clicks that are occurring as
they're occurring within your app.
To get started, it's quite simple.
Simply go into iTunes Connect,
fill out the iAd contract,
implement the iAd
framework within your app,
and then submit it for review.
And you should be off and running.
So that's the monetization side.
Let's talk about the promotion
side and how you can leverage iAd
to drive downloads of your apps.
And for that, we introduced iAd Workbench
back at WWDC this past summer.
iAd Workbench is a do-it-yourself
campaign creation and management tool.
And when we announced it this summer,
it was available in the US only.
But as of this week,
it's now available in all 14
countries that I mentioned earlier.
So I'm going to talk about campaign
creation and the analytics that we serve.
So let's begin by talking
about the campaign creation.
It takes just a couple of minutes
to get your campaign up and running.
It's five simple steps.
You must first, of course,
select the app you want to promote,
which is your app.
Then you need to select your audience.
And for the non-marketers in the room,
it could not be simpler.
By selecting automatic,
we will find the best audience
for you based upon the integration
that iAd has with the App Store.
But for the marketers that are out here,
you can do your own manual targeting.
There's eight different
criteria you can select,
whether it's gender, whether it's age,
whether it's region or
interest within the App Store.
You can do as much targeting as you want.
The third step is to tell iAd how much
you want to spend over what period of
time and then you upload your creative.
Now if you don't have the creative
resources in your company to do this,
we actually have four
templates that you can use,
varying colors and fonts,
to make it look unique for yourself.
And then you submit your campaign
and you'll get a response within 24
hours and you'll be up and running.
Now, once your campaign is running,
we provide a dashboard of analytics.
We provide a macro view of the account
that allows you to monitor your
campaigns but also initiate new ones.
But then you can get into the detailed
statistics of the campaign if you want.
You can look at specific time periods.
You can look at your spend,
your impressions, your downloads,
your taps, your tap-through rates,
and then your cost per click
and your cost per acquisition.
And you can also export this data
as a CSV file that you can import
then into your own analytics package.
Now, we spent over an hour talking about
this at WWDC this past summer,
so I don't have enough
time to go any deeper,
but we have resources
available to you online,
and additionally,
there's some folks in the lab from
the iAd team that can get you up and
running if you have any questions.
So the third program I want
to talk to you briefly about
is our affiliate program.
The affiliate program allows you to earn
a 7% commission when promoting apps,
including your own games,
and any other content that
we sell through iTunes,
whether it's TV, movies, music, or books.
But what most developers don't know about
is that you can use our affiliate program
to track your marketing campaigns.
You can track your sales of your
paid apps and your free apps and
see how they perform by channel.
I'll explain that to you how
to do that in just a moment.
So we are now rolling out a brand
new program with a new partner called
PHG that's going to provide a single
partner now for our affiliate program
in 100 countries around the globe.
And one of the biggest benefits
about this new partner is the fact
that the URL scheme is much easier.
You simply just select your
URL out of the App Store and
append your unique affiliate token.
That's all you need to do to begin
receiving that 7% commission.
But that added benefit I mentioned to
you earlier is the campaign tracking.
You can append a campaign token to
the end of the URL and append any
40-character string to the end of that.
So let's say you want to track an email
performance or you wanted to track the
performance of a particular web campaign.
You can do this and you can
see your results in real time
to see how they're performing.
It's a huge benefit to developers that
don't have a deeper analytics package.
Given that it's a global program,
we've now localized the
resources into 24 languages,
and we now offer the ability for you to
receive payment in over 100 different
currencies from around the globe.
We provide a myriad of additional tools.
We can create banners
for any store content.
We provide interactive widgets.
We have a search API, an RSS feed,
as well as an enterprise partner feed
where you can download all the metadata
for every bit of content for everything
that we sell to help in your marketing.
So that's our affiliate program.
Now I'd like to briefly talk about
some of the marketing resources
that we have provided to you to
help make your marketing look great.
We provide these on the iOS Dev Center,
but sometimes it's hard to find,
so you simply have to go to
appstore.com slash marketing
to get directly to this page.
Here, we provide the
App Store marketing guidelines.
We provide links to Apple Assets,
which we'll talk about in a second,
as well as links to a number of tools.
So first, let me touch base on the
marketing guidelines.
We just completely rewrote these.
They are simpler and
much easier to follow.
And the reason we produce these is to
give you advice and direction on how best
to market your apps using our assets.
And those assets include
the App Store badges as
well as the device images.
Now we just localized these
guidelines into Spanish,
Italian, German, and French this week.
And that's in addition
to simplified Chinese,
traditional Chinese, and Japanese.
And we'll roll out some additional
languages here very soon.
So let's talk briefly
about the App Store badges.
And we really encourage you guys to
use this in all of your marketing
because App Store customers understand
this badge as a call to action.
And it says that your app is
available and ready for download.
So use it in all of your marketing.
But when using it,
it's important that you
lead with your brand,
your title, explaining why your app or
your game is as great as it is.
And use the App Store badge
in a subordinate position.
We want you to lead with
the greatness of your app.
We've also made it easier for
you to market internationally.
And if you follow Alex's guidance
earlier and localize your app,
we've now provided localized
App Store badges in 38 languages
for use around the world.
As I mentioned earlier,
we provided Apple device images for you.
So we've provided high
resolution assets for iPhone,
iPad,
and iPod Touch in both white and black.
And when using the device images,
please use actual screenshots from
your app and think about those
screenshots that exemplify really
the beauty and the magic of your app.
And avoid covering up the beauty
of your game with these marketing
messages and these violators.
That really does distract
from the magic of your app.
Put that stuff to the side and
really focus on your content.
Now, if the creative direction
you're heading down doesn't,
if the assets we provide don't
work for that creative direction,
you can take your own photos,
your own videography,
and we provide you some guidance
on how best to do that through
our marketing guidelines.
So that's it on the
programs and resources.
I'm going to spend the last 15 minutes
or so here talking about the components
of a comprehensive marketing campaign.
Now, I've met with a number of you today
and I understand that the marketing
budgets of you vary in this audience
from a zero dollar marketing budget
to maybe millions of dollars.
And my goal here is to share with you
various channels that hopefully there's a
tidbit of information and tips that will
help all of you here in this audience,
depending upon your budget.
So I've broken it down into two buckets.
Owned channels are more or
less free and paid channels are
obviously those you have to pay.
So let's jump in to the
owned channels first,
and we'll start with social media.
Social media is one of the most
effective channels that you
can use to market your app.
I know you know this,
but it's important that you
plan that social media strategy
from the very beginning.
How can you integrate social
media into your game experience?
As Alex said earlier,
ShareSheet is one great
way of doing that.
It's very simple to
share maybe high scores,
milestones,
and achievements through ShareSheet.
But I also want you to think about
how you can leverage social media
to maybe supplement your game.
You know, instead of using social media
just as a broadcast mechanism,
how can you use it to bring
content back into your game?
See where your friends are at
certain levels or things like that.
Now, while this isn't a game example,
it is a great example,
and this is with RunKeeper.
RunKeeper actually leverages social
media where you can have your friends
and family motivate you and cheer you
on for a run through social media.
So it's a different way to look at
social media and how to augment your app.
But beyond that,
you need to think about how you're
going to build your brand presence
on social media and what is your
content strategy going to be.
So there's three things
I want to leave you with.
The first, remember that when you
are posting content,
those posts are going to be nestled
amongst the posts of your customers,
friends, and family.
So be engaging.
Be conversational.
Don't continually just sell, sell,
sell all the time.
Get them to engage with your content.
and think about how you can
get them to arrest the thumb.
We all flip through our
news feeds very quickly.
And what gets us to stop is that
compelling image or that compelling copy.
And if it gets you to somebody
to stop and to read it,
your next step is to hopefully
get them to engage and share it.
Which takes me to my third point.
People are what they share.
They share what inspires them.
They share what is aspirational to them.
So think about that copy that
addresses both of those things,
inspiration and aspiration.
So that's social media.
Let's talk about email briefly.
Email is likely your first
opportunity to talk to a customer
outside of the App Store.
So that first contact
is really important.
Think about how you can be engaging and
useful so that they don't immediately
put you into their spam folder.
You want to use email
throughout the lifecycle of
your customer with your game.
So make sure that content is-- it
jumps out and is engaging to them.
and optimize your emails for the
devices it's being viewed on.
You need to consider the
image sizes that you're using,
the font types,
and the font sizes so that they're
both viewable on both iPhone and iPad.
Which brings me to my third point.
You know your customer that
you're talking to here is an
iPhone or an iPad customer.
So target those communications to them.
Talk to them directly and make
them feel special like they're
a part of your experience.
Another thing to remember is to
make your entire image clickable.
When you're providing
an image in your email,
customers know that as a call
to action and they just want
to be able to tap anywhere.
So don't make them sort of target and
find that really small call to action.
Allow them to click anywhere.
Next, use email as a way to test
your marketing strategies.
And one great way to do that
is test your subject line.
So as you're doing an email blast,
segment your audience into two
groups and do A/B testing and see
how the results affect open rate.
Take those learnings and apply
them to your next email and your
next email and you're going to
get smarter and you're going to
continue to drive great engagement.
You want to be useful in your content?
So you don't, again,
you don't always need to be selling.
Maybe provide them tips and tricks
on how to get to that next level or
give them an insight of what the,
you know, level 47 is going to be,
whatever that's going to be.
Get them to engage with your app again.
And then also use email to
support that social media
strategy we talked about earlier.
Get them to follow you on the
popular social media networks.
So that's email.
So now some tips for your website.
Back at iOS 6, we launched a technology
called Smart App Banners.
With Smart App Banners,
all you need to do is enter one
line of code onto your website.
And with that,
your website will be able to
detect if a customer is coming
to you from an iOS device.
And when that happens,
a banner is presented
at the top of your page.
And it's smart because it knows,
in this case, whether or not I have
Diamond Dash installed on my device.
If I don't, the call to action says View.
And when I tap on View,
I'm taken into the
App Store to download the app.
But if I do have the
app installed already,
it says Open.
And I have the ability
to just tap on that,
and then it launches the game directly.
It's important to optimize
your website for mobile.
Very similar to what I said with email.
Think about your image size and
your font type and your font sizes
so that you can engage with it on a
smaller form factor like the iPhone.
and provide multiple install points.
Once the customer begins
scrolling through your page and
they lose that smart app banner,
provide the App Store badge
on there so they can click
on it and download your game.
Again,
support that social media strategy.
Allow your customers to follow you on
Facebook and Twitter or other networks.
And then finally,
provide a link to customer care or
an FAQ so that you can address your
customers' problems directly rather than
them leaving you negative feedback on
the App Store and affecting your ratings.
Now the next channel I want to talk
about briefly is cross promotion.
Many of you in the audience have
multiple apps on the App Store.
And I've seen some good and not so good
ways that you can cross promote apps.
But the thing to remember is to be
thoughtful to your customers that
you've already worked so hard to
acquire and don't be too intrusive
when you're doing that cross marketing.
So I'm going to provide
you three examples here of
what I think is thoughtful,
good cross marketing.
The first is the More Apps menu.
And with Cut the Rope,
they've provided this little
window shade pole at the very top.
And by pulling down on it,
it's interactive, it supports gravity,
what have you,
but you can slip through the other
games that ZeptoLabs provides.
Another example are tickers.
These are not intrusive.
So here I am looking
at the Sims Free Play,
and the streaming ticker at the
bottom is talking about FIFA 14.
It's being thoughtful,
it's talking about the
benefits of FIFA 14.
And if I'm interested,
I simply tap on it, and I'm taken to the
App Store to download it.
And then the third example is
what we call interactive creative.
What the impossible line has done
here is you can take these bubbles
from the upper right-hand corner,
pull them down,
you can bounce them off one another,
you can interact with it,
but by tapping on it,
it pops the bubble and then it takes you
into the App Store via a store sheet.
And that's my last point I want to
emphasize here is to use store sheet.
By using store sheet,
the customer could engage and
buy this game and then once
that transaction is complete,
they're taken right back into the
game where they were previously
and you haven't lost that,
their spot in the game.
Next I want to talk about PR.
I want to remind you that PR does
not stand for press release.
Gone are the days where a press release
makes a comprehensive PR campaign.
It stands for public
relations and it takes work.
It doesn't cost you anything.
It just takes your energy and
effort to go out there and
find the influencers out there.
And that's where the promo
codes come into play.
Those 100 promo codes you can pull
out of iTunes Connect shouldn't
be used for your brother,
your sister, your mom, or your dad.
Give it to the influencers out there,
those people that can
write about your app.
And please, embargo them.
Don't allow them to write about your game
until your app is live on the App Store.
It really does you very little
good for them to write about you,
for when the audience
is reading that article,
they can't act on it.
There's nothing for them to do.
So wait for them to write about
you until your app is live on the
store and drive as much PR in a
short amount of time as you can.
Beyond launch,
you want to find an advocate.
You want to find somebody that can
continue to talk about your app.
I see some great examples with
racing games where they've gotten
race car drivers to continually talk
about it and show their levels as
they're progressing through games.
Really consider finding an advocate that
can continue to talk about your game.
Now,
if you do want to write a press release,
make sure you can support
your claims that you make.
And then finally,
please send them to us ahead
of time for our review.
You can send them to us at
pressreleasesatapple.com and our
PR team will look at them and give you
any feedback within five business days.
So the last owned channel I want
to talk about are trailers.
And I love the trailers I'm
seeing from the audience like you,
game developers.
The production value of trailers nowadays
have really gone to the next step.
But I want to give you a few
tips and tricks of things that
we like to see in trailers.
And the first thing is that you
need to grab somebody's attention.
And with a trailer,
we have found that you have about six
seconds to grab somebody's attention
of whether or not they want to continue
to watch what your game is about.
But that being said,
they do have a limited attention span.
So keep your trailer to
within 30 to 60 seconds.
As I said earlier,
I know you work really hard
to make your game look great.
So use professional capturing tools to
capture digitally your gaming experience.
Don't have your friend look over you with
a camera and record you playing with it.
Use these digital capturing systems.
And then support your trailer
with a great soundtrack.
You're going to want to provide
a clear call to action because in
many cases those trailers aren't,
you can't click with them.
So make sure you provide
the App Store badge,
a vanity URL,
whatever that may be to get them to go
into the App Store to download your app.
And the last point I want to
make about trailers is to ensure
that it's globally appropriate.
And there's two aspects to this.
The first is price.
So if your app or your
game is a paid-for app,
when you talk about it in one currency,
that doesn't really translate to
other currencies around the globe.
You know,
somebody in Japan or China might not know
what the conversion rate is for a euro,
for example.
Additionally, by talking about your
specific price point,
it doesn't give you the opportunity
to do price promotions as well.
So we really just encourage
you to leave the price out of
it unless your game is free.
The other aspect to being globally
appropriate is the content itself.
And the level at which people are
offended by maybe violence or other
types of content varies around the globe.
So be sure that you err on the side
of caution so that people will want
to continue to watch these trailers.
So the example I have here is from
EA of their trailer for FIFA 14.
And many of you may have seen this,
but those that haven't,
they've done a great job of
really building a great trailer
using many of these tactics here.
So I'll conclude by talking
about two paid channels.
And the first is mobile ads.
I won't go too deep into here because
I touched on it with iAd earlier,
but one of the benefits of mobile ads
obviously is that through mobile ads,
it's the fewest taps
away from an install.
As you're engaging with a
game or an app or a website,
when you see those banner ads,
it's one tap and you're downloading
the content within the store.
But you can also use mobile ads
not only for user acquisition,
but also to help build your brand.
We encourage you to do both.
And also the benefit primarily
around that you can target
your campaigns by device,
by demographic, by interest,
whatever that might be.
Now one tip I want to provide you
though is your creative direction.
You can't create a single piece
of creative for all the channels
that you're marketing through.
So make sure that you create custom
creative dependent upon that channel.
We have heard from
developers on Facebook,
for example,
it's better to use live action photos
like you might see here for Hay Day.
That actually drives higher
engagement for developers.
But it's also important that you test.
So I know some developers that
will create upwards of 50 pieces
of creative for one campaign.
They'll very quickly learn what works
best and what doesn't and continue to
invest in that creative that does work.
And now my last point and my last channel
I want to share with you is television.
I understand this might be out
of the budget of many of you,
but I'm seeing some great
TV campaigns around the globe,
a lot of them here in Europe as well.
And what makes television
work so well is the fact that
while people are watching TV,
their devices are at hand.
Either their iPhone is in their pocket,
their iPad is on their lap,
and if the television
commercial is engaging enough,
you will see them convert and you'll
actually see results in near real time.
But it's important that you share
the magic moments of your game
to make sure that it's engaging
and you get people to convert.
You want to support it
with a strong voiceover,
maybe talking about the key features,
the devices.
But of course, you're going to want to
have a clear call to action.
One way to create a clear call to
action is by having a strong end frame.
By that strong end frame,
what I mean is that the last three
or four seconds of a TV spot,
make sure you have the App Store badge,
but use your vanity URL.
I should have mentioned this earlier.
Your vanity URL is something that
every one of you in this audience have.
You have your own appstore.com URL,
which would be appstore.com slash
your app name or appstore.com
slash your developer name.
And by using that in offline media,
such as TV or print or
billboard or what have you,
it's a URL that your customers could
easily remember and then go convert
and get them to activate against.
So the TV spot I'm going to
share with you is from Wooga
for their new Jelly Splash game,
or for the Jelly Splash game.
And they've done a great job of
capturing all these tips here
to produce a really great spot.
Plus they've added a
little bit of humor to it,
which I think helps
drive engagement as well.
Jelly Splash.
The most addictive puzzle game ever.
Search Jelly Splash now.
The hit game played by millions.
Download for free on iPhone and iPad.
Play Jelly Splash today.
So great example of the badge usage,
great example of the vanity
URL I mentioned earlier,
all in all a great spot.
So I want to leave with
you with an email address.
This is appstoremarketing@apple.com.
This gives you direct access
to our global marketing team.
If you have any questions
about your marketing campaigns,
your strategies, if you want to send us
your assets for review,
we would love to take a look at it.
We will respond to you
within five business days.
So with that, I want to thank you,
and I'm going to hand it
over to Shannon Bruce to
talk about iTunes Connect.
My name is Shannon Bruce and I work
on the App Store operations team.
You've been hearing some great tips
on choosing the right business model
and how to best market your app.
And I'm going to talk some more
about how you can execute on some of
these things through iTunes Connect.
I know that all of you have at
least one app on the App Store,
so you should be very
familiar with iTunes Connect.
And it is the gateway to the App Store.
It's the website you use to
create and manage your apps,
check your payments and sales reports,
request your promo codes, and much more.
I'm going to cover three
major topics today.
First, I'll go over some recently
launched and valuable features.
Second,
I'll talk about how you can execute
on your plans to localize your app.
And finally,
I'll leave you with some tips
and tricks to help manage your
business more effectively.
Let's start with our first feature,
promo codes.
We provide you with 100 promo codes
for your use and they're set up
so that you can request them as
you need them in any denomination.
As Steve mentioned,
we encourage you to reserve these
codes for your media representatives
and influencers who can try out
your app before it's available
to the general public and write
about it to help you promote it.
Up until recently,
you were only able to request promo
codes in the ready for sale state,
but I'm happy to announce that you
can now request promo codes in the
pending developer release state as well.
This is really exciting because it
allows you to request promo codes for
your app updates in addition to your
first version of the app so you can
promote your new features as well.
The next feature I want to
talk about is app transfer.
This is a very exciting launch
for us this year at WWDC,
as it was a highly
requested feature by you.
And it's the ability to transfer
the ownership of an app from one
developer account to another.
And what are some of the reasons
you might use App Transfer?
The App Store has been in
business for five years now,
and many of you have
seen phenomenal success.
You may have had the opportunity to
sell your app to another developer,
or you may have acquired a great
app from another developer.
Or maybe you've registered
multiple accounts with Apple and
would like to consolidate those
accounts to be managed as one.
If you're in any of these situations,
App Transfer is a great solution for you.
And what are the benefits?
One of the greatest things about app
transfer is that it is completely
seamless to your customers.
What that means is that customers can
continue to use the app and new customers
can continue to purchase the app while
the transfer process is happening.
And you get to retain all
of your chart placement,
your customer ratings and reviews,
and the ability to update
the app for your customers.
And there are really just very minimal
visible changes to the app on the store.
The only thing that changes on
the App Store is the seller name.
So let's walk through a flow to
show you what this looks like.
First, as the current owner,
you'll log into iTunes Connect,
select the app you wish to transfer,
and enter in the new owner information.
That's the Apple ID of the team agent
and the team ID of the new owner.
Then Apple will draw up a contract
agreement between you and the new owner,
and the app will move into a
substate called Pending App Transfer.
If your app is ready
for sale at this time,
it remains on the store,
as all of this is
happening on the back end.
At the same time,
the new owner will receive an email
letting them know that a transfer
is waiting their acceptance.
They'll log into iTunes Connect and
they'll be required to enter
in some new app metadata.
I'll go into detail about
what this is in a minute.
They will also sign the same
contract agreement and once both
developers have signed the contract,
the app moves into processing
app transfer where it's moving
from one account to the next.
There are some rules
regarding app transfer,
and I want to go over just a
few of them that you should know
about before transferring an app.
You'll want to make sure you've agreed
to any available contract amendments.
From time to time,
Apple updates the terms of
the program license agreement
or the paid apps contract.
And we just want to make sure
that you've agreed to these
terms before transferring an app.
You also need to have at least
one approved version for your app,
and you won't be able to transfer
an app that is currently in review.
This includes in-app
purchase reviews as well.
So as the current owner,
what are some things you should have
ready before initiating a transfer?
You'll need to collect
the new owner information,
that is the Apple ID of the team agent.
This isn't their password,
just the username they use
to log into iTunes Connect.
And the team ID.
The team ID is a unique identifier
for your developer account,
and you can find this
ID in the member center.
We also encourage you to
back up your app history.
Once the app is transferred,
it's completely gone out of
your iTunes Connect account,
so you won't have access
to any of its current data.
So if you want to request a
catalog report or just have this
information for your own records,
you should do this before
initiating the transfer.
And you'll need to arrange the actual
transfer of the source code and
binary of the app with the new owner.
Because the only thing that the
transfer process does is transfer
the data to the new owner.
So then once the transfer
has been initiated,
the app is under metadata lockdown.
What this means is that you can
still make changes to the pricing
and availability of the app,
but you will be locked out of
making changes to anything else.
And the recipient has 60 days
in order to accept the transfer.
If they do not accept
within the 60-day period,
it will automatically be canceled.
So then as the new owner,
what are some things you should have
ready before accepting an app transfer?
You'll want to have that new app
metadata that I mentioned earlier.
Since the ownership of
the app is changing,
we're under the assumption that the
contact information is changing as well.
So we require that you enter in the
support URL and marketing URL for
your app so that we can ensure that
customers are directed to the correct
place as the ownership changes.
This includes your app review
contact information as well.
This information is important so
that if any questions or issues
arise during the review of your app,
we have a way of contacting you.
And if the app contains encryption,
the previous owner may have supplied
export compliance documentation
and you'll want to have this
documentation ready as well.
Many of you who acquire an app like
to submit an update in order to
make any changes to the branding
information within the app.
And we encourage you to have this
update ready so that you can submit it
as soon as the transfer is complete.
Then when the app moves into the
processing app transfer state,
the transfer has begun and the pricing is
locked down in addition to the metadata.
This should only take about 30 minutes,
so you shouldn't be
locked out for too long,
but the transfer cannot
be canceled at this time.
It's literally when the app is moving
from the current owner to the new owner.
So just to show you what this
looks like on the App Store,
Angry Birds was one of our
first apps to be transferred.
And you can see that the only thing
that changes on the App Store is the
seller name from Chilingo to Rovio.
So that's app transfer.
The next feature I want to
cover is alternate price tiers.
We recently introduced some
additional tiers for your use.
These tiers are available for
developers globally who wish to vary
pricing in different currencies.
And they just give you a little
more flexibility to price your app
thoughtfully and competitively.
There are five additional
tiers for your use.
They are completely market optimized,
which means that they're culturally
relevant and consumer friendly to
the regions using those currencies.
And there are no restrictions,
meaning you can choose these for any
of your apps or in-app purchases.
And the great thing about the
App Store being on the agency
model means that you can change
your pricing at any time.
These new tiers also
map to existing apps.
So one thing to note is that we
only support the selection of
these tiers through iTunes Connect.
We don't support the assignment of
these tiers through any other delivery
method such as the import from file
functionality in Application Loader
or the XML feed with Transporter.
But I do want to point out where you can
select these tiers in iTunes Connect.
This is the rights and
pricing page of the app.
And you can see that the
alternate tiers are listed down
at the bottom of the price tier.
list.
Just to illustrate what this looks like,
we'll use an example of
an app priced at tier one,
which is 99 cents in the US dollar
and 69 pence in the British pound.
However,
if you were to select alternate tier one,
the price remains 99
cents in the US dollar,
but is now 99 pence in the British pound.
And 99 pence is just a more
culturally relevant price point.
While it might be slightly
higher for the customer,
it's just another option for you to be
able to price your app competitively.
And a few other examples.
Tier 1 in the Euro is 89 Euro and
alternate Tier 1 is 99 Euro.
And for the Chinese RMB,
6 RMB for Tier 1 and 8 RMB for Tier 2.
So we encourage you to check out these
new tiers and just see what works
for your app and your business model.
The last feature I want to
talk about is automation.
We know that your time as a
developer is very valuable.
And we do all that we
can to save you time,
especially when it comes to repetitive
actions with iTunes Connect.
So I want to talk about two areas
of automation that I think will be
very helpful with saving you time.
The first area of automation
is auto-ingesting your
reports from iTunes Connect.
We provide you with a command line tool
that allows you to automate the delivery
of your reports from iTunes Connect.
This has been available for
your sales and trends reports,
but we recently expanded it
to include the delivery of
your payment reports as well.
And it just allows you to access
your reports without actually
having to log into the iTunes
Connect interface each time.
In order to use this tool,
you first have to download the auto
ingestion class file at the URL here.
And you'll need to change your directory
level to point to the class file.
And you'll also need to
create a properties file
for your login credentials.
That is your iTunes Connect Apple ID and
your iTunes Connect password.
The great thing about this properties
file is that it just puts a little more
security around your login credentials
as you used to enter this information
directly into the command line.
So it just allows your username and
password to be a little bit more secure.
And I'll walk through what this
command line looks like for each
of the reports so you know how
to do this for your own account.
This is the command for the sales report.
And all of the information in the
angle brackets will be your own values.
And the parameters will
be delimited with a space.
So you'll first start by
entering in your vendor ID.
And your vendor ID is another unique
identifier for your developer account.
This identifier can be
found in the Contracts,
Tax, and Making module.
Then you'll enter in the report type,
which is sales for the
standard sales report.
Or if you have any newsstand apps and
wish to download the newsstand report,
you can enter newsstand.
Then you'll indicate the date type,
which is the daily, weekly, monthly,
or yearly interval.
And the report subtype will be
summary for the standard sales report,
detailed for the newsstand report,
or if you're using
auto-renewable subscriptions,
you may be collecting personal
information from customers who've chosen
to share this information with you,
and you can download
that report using opt-in.
Finally, the date range is optional,
and this is the exact date for
the report you wish to download.
If you don't include a date,
we'll just provide you with the
latest available report based on
the parameters you've indicated.
Similarly, this is the command for
the payment reports.
And you'll again start by
entering in your vendor ID.
But for the payment reports,
you need to include two leading
zeros in front of your vendor ID.
Since the payment reports
are broken out by currency,
you'll then indicate a region code.
And a list of the available region
codes is available in the Payments
and Financial Reports User Guide in
iTunes Connect,
if you need to access that.
The report type is
always going to be DRR,
which is the standard report
type for the payment reports.
And finally, you'll enter in the fiscal
year and fiscal period.
And if you need to access a
copy of Apple's fiscal calendar,
there is one available in the
Payments and Financial Reports module
in iTunes Connect.
So that's auto-ingesting your reports.
And the second area of automation
I want to cover is Apple's command
line tool called Transporter.
Transporter allows you to
deliver your app metadata based
on our XML specifications.
You can integrate Transporter
with your own content management
system if you have one.
And we recently introduced the
ability to deliver your rights
and pricing changes through iTunes
Connect through Transporter.
You can request catalog reports.
And you can deliver your app
metadata through Transporter,
which can be extremely helpful
when localizing your app.
This brings me to the next
topic of localization setup.
You've been hearing a lot about how
you should think global and be local.
And Alex and Steve have talked about
how important App Store localization
can be for providing your customers
with the best customer experience.
We highly recommend it.
We've talked about how the App Store is
available in 155 territories,
and we offer you 28 languages
to set up for localization.
We highly encourage you to use
professional localization resources.
Alex mentioned this resource earlier.
And we advise against using
automated translation services
you might find on the web,
as they might translate your
content but don't fully localize
it to be culturally relevant.
We also encourage you to
localize anywhere possible.
Alex showed a great example
of Where Is My Water?
and they localized everything
including their screenshots.
We know that there's a lot of fields in
iTunes Connect that you can localize,
which is why the XML feed
can be very helpful.
One last thing I want to talk about
regarding localization setup is that
you are required to submit your app for
review when you do add new localizations.
So just make sure you leave enough
time for the review process when
you wish to add new localizations.
And for those of you who wish
to cut down on the repetitive
actions that localizing can bring,
we encourage you to adopt the
automated process of the XML feed.
And the steps for using the
XML feed are fairly simple.
You can start by looking up your existing
metadata from the Apple database,
which will provide you with your
current app metadata in the exact
format that it'll need to be uploaded.
From there, you can make any edits
that you wish to make.
And once you've made your changes,
you can run Transporter in verify mode,
which allows you to check your changes
against our XML specifications.
Then, you can upload your information
so that it's ready to submit
with your next update.
You will still need to create your new
app versions in iTunes Connect and you'll
want to monitor your state transitions
through iTunes Connect as well.
And I'm not going to go over a demo,
but I do want to point out that
there are a number of resources
available to you within the Manage
Your Apps module of iTunes Connect.
And there's also a great session
video from this year's WWDC called
What's New in iTunes Connect.
They talk in a little bit more
detail about the XML feed,
and they do a full end-to-end
demo of what this looks like.
So if you're interested in
checking out this video,
you can access it from
the developer portal.
And we know that once you
set up your localizations,
you like to see what it looks like
for your customer on the App Store.
This is the Pages app,
and just to show you what
some of this looks like,
one thing that we get a lot of
questions about is the list of
languages that appears in the app
information section on the app page.
This list of languages is
not the languages that you've
set up in iTunes Connect.
This list comes from the
lproj folder in your binary,
and is meant to be the list of languages
that your app is localized into
once the customer has downloaded it.
The languages that you've set up in
iTunes Connect will automatically
be displayed on the App Store based
on the customer's OS and storefront.
So all you have to do is
provide the content in iTunes
Connect and the localizations
will automatically display here.
And just to show you
a few other examples,
you can see how your localizations
look on the store by changing your
OS and you can see what it looks like.
So finally,
I'd like to leave you with some tips
and tricks that you can take away today.
Tip number one is viewing your
App Store localizations on the device.
We just saw what this
looks like on the desktop,
but it can be a little bit trickier to
view your localizations on the device.
And we get a lot of questions about this,
so I wanted to walk you
through how you could do that.
You'll start by entering
multitasking mode in order
to quit out of the App Store.
Then you'll go to your settings
and tap General International.
Then tap Language.
And from here, you can select the iOS
language that you wish to view.
For this example,
I'm going to choose Chinese.
So tap the language and then tap Done.
From there,
you'll go back to the App Store.
And if you're logged into
your personal iTunes account,
you'll need to sign out.
Then you'll tap the Sign In button.
Here you can see that the language
has started to change to Chinese.
And I don't personally speak Chinese,
but I know that the third
line here indicates the option
to create a new Apple ID.
And this is where the trick comes in.
You don't actually have
to create a new Apple ID,
but you will start
walking through the flow.
So tap Create New Apple ID.
And then you'll be prompted
to indicate a storefront.
This is where you can select
the storefront you wish to view.
So tap Store.
And for this example, I'll choose China.
And then at this point,
you can tap Cancel to
exit out of the flow.
Once you exit out of the flow,
the storefront will automatically
change to the territory you've selected.
So now that we have our iOS
language set to Chinese and
our storefront set to China,
if we search for the Pages app,
we can now see the Chinese localization
as it would appear for the customer.
Tip number two is regarding
tracking your customer reviews.
Alex talked about how great this can
be for your business and that your
customers leave some great feedback.
While you can do this on the App Store,
we also encourage you to do
this through iTunes Connect.
You can access this page
from the app summary page.
And the great thing about tracking
your reviews through iTunes Connect is
that you can easily toggle between the
different territories since your customer
reviews are specific to each territory.
And you can access and
subscribe to an RSS feed,
which allows you to get instant feedback
when customers post new reviews.
Finally, tip number three is our
advice for scheduling a sale.
Since the App Store is
a global marketplace,
we operate on many international
time zones across the world.
And what that means is that pricing
or availability change will go live at
different times in different countries
on different time zones across the world.
And it's what we call a rolling
price and availability setting.
Because the change begins propagating
in one area and then rolls across
the globe over a period of time.
So to illustrate what this looks like,
we'll take a look at a map and we'll
use a price change as our example.
So if I have a paid app and I want
to run a 24-hour sale where customers
can download my app for free,
the price will begin to be free in the
New Zealand and South Pacific region,
followed by the Asia Pacific region,
then Australia, Russia, India,
and the Middle East.
Next, Africa, Europe, and Latin America.
And finally, the price will drop to
free in North America.
And because of this rolling schedule,
what we recommend is that if
you wish to run a 24-hour sale,
that you actually set it up for
three full days in iTunes Connect.
So this is what it would look like.
You can see that I've set the sale to
begin on the 10th and end on the 13th.
And that concludes our session for today.
I want to thank you for your time.
And here are a list of some of the
resources that were mentioned today.
If you have any questions about
marketing or distribution,
please come visit us in the lab.
And we're going to take a short break.
And in about five minutes or so,
we'll start again with
a session on SpriteKit.